## How is hydroelectric power generated?  
   - Illustrate and explain the working of a diversion hydropower plant
[Ans: the turbines generates electricity as and when the sufficient water flow rate from the river is available.If the river dries up or water flow is low, generation ceases. Water is diverted via a canal and penstock/water pipe from upstream of the river to a powerhouse downstream. As the water pass the water generators and turbines in the powerhouse, part of the energy is tranferred to the generator and water discharged from the turbines which are low in energy, will join back to river.]
   
   - Illustrate and explain the working of a impoundment hydropower plant
[Ans: Dams could be used for flood control, irrigation and also generate power if it has a penstock and powerhouse at the base of the dam. By putting a siphon intake above the dam will also generate power, the turbine-and-generator is operated as a pump in the water from upstream. once the whole siphone is filled up , gravitational force and water pressure between the upstream and downstream water level will continue to suck in water from upstream to downstream.]
    
   - Illustrate and explain the working of a hydroelectric power in water pipes
[Ans: Water pipes which are nearest to water tower high pressure and it is introduce water hammer phenomenon which is harmful to old pipe and valves. water hammer arresters are normally used to reduce the impact. Harvesting the energy from the water pressure before transferring the water to its end users is another solution. However, water pipes which are futher away for the tower has insufficient water pressure. Compensation stroage tank is used to introduc pressure back to the pipes.]

   - Illustrate and explain the working of tidal power, wave power, vortex power
[Ans: 
1. Tidal power is a form of hyfropower that converts the energy of tide into electricity or other useful form of power. There are 2 ways of harveting tidal power, water is trapped in reservoir during high tide and forced through turbines during low tide or tidal stream generators draw energy from currents in seas.

2. Wave power is when generators either coupled to floating devices or turned by air displaced by waves in hollow concrete structure would produce electricity

3. Vortex power is generated by undersea flowing water over obstacles are used generate power.]
    
   - Illustrate and explain the differences between various types of water turbines
    [Ans: There are 2 categories of water turbines impluse turbines and reaction turbines.
    
    Impluse turbines: such as pelton turbines use one or more jet impinge on a wheel carrying on its large number of bucket on its periphery. thus each jet will issue water through a nozzle with needle valve to control the flow. Turgo turbines evolved fom the pelton turbines, the bucket shaped design are shaped differently and the jets strikes the plane of the runner at angle. thus, water enter the runner through one side of the runner disk and emerges from the other side.
    
    Reaction turbines: such a Franics turbines have fixed runner blades and adjustable guide vanes and used for medium heads. The admission is always radial but the outlet is axial and highly effient to be used for a wide range of heads and flow. It is also used for pumped storage, whwere a reservoir is filled by the turbine during low power demand and reversed and use to generate power durin gpeak demand. Kaplan turbines are axial-flow reaction turbined with adjustable runner blades and guide vanes known as "double-regulated". If the guide-vanes are fixed it is known as "single-regulated". Fixed runner blade Kaplan turbines are called propeller turbines as it is an evolution of the franics turbine for use in low-head application.]
    
  
    
Cite your sources.
[Answers are found in the notes given in mel Chapter 3 ]
